resource_control: add set resource group and resource group hint (#12866)
pingcap/docs: tidb-resource-control.md

The TiDB resource control feature provides two layers of resource management capabilities: the flow control capability at the TiDB layer and the priority scheduling capability at the TiKV layer. The two capabilities can be enabled separately or simultaneously. See the [Parameters for resource control](#parameters-for-resource-control) for details. This allows the TiDB layer to control the flow of user read and write requests based on the quotas set for the resource groups, and allows the TiKV layer to schedule the requests based on the priority mapped to the read and write quota. By doing this, you can ensure resource isolation for your applications and meet quality of service (QoS) requirements.

- TiDB flow control: TiDB flow control uses the [token bucket algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Token_bucket). If there are not enough tokens in a bucket, and the resource group does not specify the `BURSTABLE` option, the requests to the resource group will wait for the token bucket to backfill the tokens and retry. The retry might fail due to timeout.

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

> - TiKV scheduling: You can set the absolute priority [(`PRIORITY`)](/information-schema/information-schema-resource-groups.md#examples) as needed. Different resources are scheduled according to the `PRIORITY` setting. Tasks with high `PRIORITY` are scheduled first. If you do not set the absolute priority, TiKV uses the value of `RU_PER_SEC` of each resource group to determine the priority of the read and write requests for each resource group. Based on the priorities, the storage layer uses the priority queue to schedule and process requests.

Author: cloud 这部分现在其实可以删掉了，因为默认改为 true，用户不需要找技术支持设置即可使用

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> * TiKV: For on-premises TiDB, you can use the `resource-control.enabled` parameter to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas. For TiDB Cloud, the value of the `resource-control.enabled` parameter is  `true` by default and does not support dynamic modification. If you need to disable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TiKV: For on-premises TiDB, you can use the `resource-control.enabled` parameter to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas. For TiDB Cloud, the value of the `resource-control.enabled` parameter is  `true` by default and does not support dynamic modification..
```
I think it's no need mentioned it in here.

#### Bind users to a resource group

The following example creates a user `usr1` and binds the user to the resource group `rg1`.

```sql
CREATE USER 'usr1'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY '123' RESOURCE GROUP rg1;
```

The following example uses `ALTER USER` to bind the user `usr2` to the resource group `rg2`.

```sql
ALTER USER usr2 RESOURCE GROUP rg2;
```

After you bind users, the resource consumption of newly created sessions will be controlled by the specified quota (Request Unit, RU). If the system workload is relatively high and there is no spare capacity, the resource consumption rate of `usr2` will be strictly controlled not to exceed the quota. Because `usr1` is bound by `rg1` with `BURSTABLE` configured, the consumption rate of `usr1` is allowed to exceed the quota.

If there are too many requests that result in insufficient resources for the resource group, the client's requests will wait. If the wait time is too long, the requests will report an error.

> **Note:**
>
> - When you bind a user to a resource group by using `CREATE USER` or `ALTER USER`, it will not take effect for the user's existing sessions, but only for the user's new sessions.

> > - The TiDB cluster automatically creates a `default` resource group when it is initialized。 Statements that are not bound to a resource group are automatically bound to this resource group. This resource group does not support deletion, but you can modify the configuration of its RU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - The TiDB cluster automatically creates a `default` resource group when it is initialized. Statements that are not bound to a resource group are automatically bound to this resource group. This resource group does not support deletion, but you can modify the configuration of its RU.
```

For an existing resource group, you can modify the `RU_PER_SEC` option (the rate of RU backfilling per second) of the resource group by using [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md). The changes to the resource group take effect immediately.

You can delete a resource group by using [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md).

### Create a resource group

The following is an example of how to create a resource group and bind users to it.

1. Create a resource group `rg1`. The RU backfill rate is 500 RUs per second and allows applications in this resource group to overrun resources.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg1 RU_PER_SEC = 500 BURSTABLE;
    ```

2. Create a resource group `rg2`. The RU backfill rate is 600 RUs per second and does not allow applications in this resource group to overrun resources.

    ```sql
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2 RU_PER_SEC = 600;
    ```

3. Create a resource group `rg3`. Set the absolute priority to `HIGH`. The absolute priority currently supports `LOW|MEDIUM|HIGH`. The default value is `MEDIUM`.

    ```sql

>     CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg2 RU_PER_SEC = 100 PRIORITY = HIGH;

Author: ```suggestion
    CREATE RESOURCE GROUP IF NOT EXISTS rg3 RU_PER_SEC = 100 PRIORITY = HIGH;
```

    ```

### Bind resource groups

TiDB supports three levels of resource group settings as follows.

> - User level. Bind the user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statements to a specific resource group. After binding a resource group to a user, sessions created by the user are automatically bound to the corresponding resource group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- User level. Bind a user to a specific resource group via the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) or [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement. After a user is bound to a resource group, sessions created by the user are automatically bound to the corresponding resource group.
```

> - Session level. Set the resource group used by the current session via [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md).
> - Statement level. Set the resource group used by the current statement via [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Session level. Set the resource group for the current session via [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md).
- Statement level. Set the resource group for the current statement via [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name).
```

If there are too many requests that result in insufficient resources for the resource group, the client's requests will wait. If the wait time is too long, the requests will report an error.

> **Note:**
>
> - When you bind a user to a resource group by using `CREATE USER` or `ALTER USER`, it will not take effect for the user's existing sessions, but only for the user's new sessions.
> - The TiDB cluster automatically creates a `default` resource group when it is initialized. Statements that are not bound to a resource group are automatically bound to this resource group. This resource group does not support deletion, but you can modify the configuration of its RU.

#### Bind the current session to a resource group

By binding a session to a resource group, the resource usage of the statements executed on the corresponding session is limited by the specified usage (RU).

The following example binds the current session to the resource group `rg1`.

```sql
SET RESOURCE GROUP rg1;
```

#### Bind the current statement to a resource group

> By using [`Optimizer Hint`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name), you can specify the resource group to which the SQL statement is bound. This hint supports SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE statements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By adding the [`RESOURCE_GROUP(resource_group_name)`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) hint to a SQL statement, you can specify the resource group to which the statement is bound. This hint supports `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` statements.
```

The following example binds the current statement to the resource group `rg1`.

```sql
SELECT /*+ RESOURCE_GROUP(rg1) */ * FROM t limit 10;
```

## Disable resource control

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

1. Execute the following statement to enable the resource control feature.

    ```sql
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_resource_control = 'OFF';
    ```

2. Set the TiKV parameter [`resource-control.enabled`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#resource-control) to `false`.

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> 1. Execute the following statement to enable the resource control feature.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Execute the following statement to disable the resource control feature.
```

    ```sql
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_resource_control = 'OFF';
    ```

> 2. For on-premises TiDB, you can use the `resource-control.enabled` parameter to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas. For TiDB Cloud, the value of the `resource-control.enabled` parameter is  `true` by default and does not support dynamic modification. If you need to disable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. For on-premises TiDB, you can use the `resource-control.enabled` parameter to control whether to use request scheduling based on resource group quotas. For TiDB Cloud, the value of the `resource-control.enabled` parameter is `true` by default and does not support dynamic modification. If you need to disable it for TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```
